# CHANGELOG

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog][1],
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning][2].

## [Unreleased]

### Added
- Extra properties in Backend context
- New property `workingDir`


## [2.0.0] - 2023-05-22

### Modified

- Renamed packages to ```es.iti.wakamiti.*```


## [1.7.0] - 2023-05-03

### Added

- Capability to use the execution ID as placeholder in the output file name
- Categorize test case errors according the step contributor
- New configuration property to include the filtered test cases in the plan result, as SKIPPED

### Fixed

- StartInstant in NOT_IMPLEMENTED results
- Add the `keyword` and `description` in the Scenario Outlines nodes to prevent errors in the html report
- Fill execution ID when using `WakamitiJUnitRunner`

## [1.6.0] - 2023-02-23

### Added

- New result status NOT_IMPLEMENTED

## [1.5.0] - 2023-01-16

### Modified

- Externalize groovy classloader to a new plugin

### Added

- Property evaluators to read global properties and the results of previous steps [issue: #66]

## [1.4.3] - 2022-11-10

### Fixed

- Text assertion

## [1.4.2] - 2022-09-21

### Fixed

- Configure logger for Maven Fetcher after setting the configuration to avoid warning messages

## [1.4.1] - 2022-09-12

### Fixed

- Update dependency `io.github.luiinge:maven-fetcher` version `1.5.0` to `1.5.1` [issue: #48]

## [1.3.2] - 2022-05-03

### Modified

- Bumped vulnerable dependency `commons-io:commons-io` version `2.6` to `2.11.0`
- Bumped vulnerable dependency `junit:junit` version `4.13-rc-2` to `4.13.2`
- Bumped vulnerable dependency `com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-databind` version `2.10.1` to `2.13.2.2`
- Bumped vulnerable dependency `org.apache.logging.log4j:log4j-core` version `2.13.0` to `2.17.2`

## [1.3.0] - 2022-01-26

### Added

- Steps can use property substitution using the syntax `${property.name}`
- Loading extra steps as `NON_REGISTERED_STEP_PROVIDERS` at runtime in groovy language

## [1.2.1] - 2021-10-22

### Fixed

- The `ClassLoader` now loads `StepsContributor` from maven artifacts.
- Now `RunnableBackend.runStep` catch `Throwable` errors instead of `Exception`.
- Now cli command configuration overwrite file configuration.

## [1.2.0] - 2021-09-28

### Added

- New property `childrenResults` in `PlanNodeSnapshot` that collects the result count of direct children.

## [1.1.0] - 2021-09-17

### Added

- New field to `PlanNode` called `executionID`, that is set when the test plan is 
executed. The execution id can be either set via configuration (new property `executionId`) or 
autogenerated otherwise. The same id is shared along every node in the plan and it should be 
unique among different executions. The aim of this new field is provide a way to distinguish
executions when they are run in parallel in a server.
- New method `WakamitiContributors#allContributors()` that returns every contributor

### Modified

- Assertion-like data types now implement their own interface `Assertion` rather than 
using `Matcher` from the *Hamcrest* library. The `MatcherAssertion` class allows mapping to
`Matcher` for convenience.
- Assertion literals `matcher.string.null` and `matcher.number.null` merged into 
`matcher.generic.null` since the translated literals are likely to be the same

### Fixed

- The contributor `ConfigContributor` now extends from `Contributor` (as it should do originally)

## [1.0.0] - 2019-04-03

Initial release.  


[1]: <https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/>
[2]: <https://semver.org>