---
title: Integración XRay
date: 2025-03-04
slug: /en/plugins/xray
---

By attaching files (such as those generated by the HTML Reporter plugin) to the [Jira](https://www.atlassian.com/es/software/jira) and [XRay](https://www.getxray.app/)
run, this plugin integrates the results of a Wakamiti execution into an existing XRay test plan.

---
## Table of Content

---


## Install


Include the module in the corresponding section.

```text tabs=coord name=yaml copy=true
es.iti.wakamiti:xray-wakamiti-plugin:2.5.2
```

```text tabs=coord name=maven copy=true
<dependency>
  <groupId>es.iti.wakamiti</groupId>
  <artifactId>xray-wakamiti-plugin</artifactId>
  <version>2.5.2</version>
</dependency>
```


## Options

### XRAY

###  `xray.enabled`
- Type: `boolean` 
- Default: `true`

Enable/disable entirely this plugin.

Example:
```yaml
xray:
  enabled: false
  
```


###  `xray.baseURL`
- Type: `url` *obligatorio*

The base url where the XRay server is located.

Example:
```yaml
xray:
  baseURL: https://eu.xray.cloud.getxray.app
```


###  `xray.auth.credentials.client-id`
- Type: `string` *obligatorio*

Client Id to be used with the XRay REST API, passed as an HTTP authentication.

Example:
```yaml
xray:
  auth:
    credentials:
      client-id: MY-CLIENT-ID
```


###  `xray.auth.credentials.client-secret`
- Type: `string` *obligatorio*

Client Secret to be used with the XRay REST API, passed as an HTTP authentication.

Example:
```yaml
xray:
  auth:
    credentials:
      client-secret: MY-CLIENT-SECRET
```


###  `xray.project`
- Type: `string` *obligatorio*

The name of the Jira project that the test plan belongs to.

Example:
```yaml
xray:
  project: MyProject
```


### `xray.plan.summary`
- Type: `string` *obligatorio*

Test plan name in XRay.

Example:
```yaml
xray:
  plan:
    summary: Wakamiti Test Plan
```


###  `xray.attachments`
- Type: `glob[]` 

Glob patterns of the reports you want to attach.

Example:
```yaml
xray:
  attachments: 
    - '**/*.html'
    - '**/wakamiti.json'
```


### `xray.testCasePerFeature`
- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `false`

Specifies whether the mapping to XRay test cases should be at feature level or scenario level.

Example:
```yaml
xray:
  testCasePerFeature: true
```


###  `xray.createItemsIfAbsent`
- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `true`

Set whether to automatically create elements that do not exist in XRay.

Example:
```yaml
xray:
  createItemsIfAbsent: true
```

### JIRA

###  `jira.baseURL`
- Type: `url` *obligatorio*

The base url where the Jira server is located.

Example:
```yaml
jira:
  baseURL: https://my-jira.atlassian.net
```


###  `jira.auth.credentials`
- Type: `string` *obligatorio*

Credentials to be used with the Jira REST API, passed as an HTTP authentication.

Example:
```yaml
jira:
  auth:
    credentials: MY-CREDENTIALS
```


## Usage

Synchronisation with XRay is performed before the tests are run. If there is a problem, the execution is stopped.
At the end of the execution, the results are synchronised with XRay.
